---
layout: guide
title: StorageOS Docs - Installing on Kubernetes 1.10
anchor: platforms
module: platforms/kubernetes/install/1.10
redirect_from: /docs/install/schedulers/kubernetes
redirect_from: /docs/install/kubernetes
---

# Kubernetes 1.10+

{% include operator/install.md %}

## Custom Installations

There are a variety of flavours, versions and particularities in the container orchestrator scope.
Because of this, StorageOS installation procedures aim to be flexible so it can fit different needs
regarding the environment, preferences or requirements. The StorageOS cluster operator makes the
installation easier by delegating the responsibility of the installation to its logic. If you want
to see and alter the installation of StorageOS, the following examples give you that capacity. Feel
free to extend and modify the publicly available examples.

### Manifests based

The following github repository hosts installation examples.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/storageos/deploy.git storageos
cd storageos/k8s/deploy-storageos
```

You can see examples available such as `standard`, `CSI (Container Storage Interface)` or
`etcd-as-svc`. All of them have a `deploy-storageos.sh` that serves as a wrapper to trigger the
manifest creation. Follow the according `README.md` of each one for more details.

### Helm installation

StorageOS can be installed with Helm. Helm adds versatility to the installation method. By editing
the `values.yaml` of the Chart, different combinations of parameters can be passed to deploy
StorageOS.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/storageos/helm-chart.git storageos
cd storageos
```

The following examples show how can you deploy StorageOS in a standard fashion or using CSI.

1. Standard
    ```bash
    # Set cluster.join to hostnames or ip addresses of at least one node
    helm install . --name my-release --set cluster.join=node01,node02,node03

    # Follow the instructions printed by helm install to update the link between Kubernetes and StorageOS. They look like:
    $ ClusterIP=$(kubectl get svc/storageos --namespace storageos -o custom-columns=IP:spec.clusterIP --no-headers=true)
    $ ApiAddress=$(echo -n "tcp://$ClusterIP:5705" | base64)
    $ kubectl patch secret/storageos-api --namespace storageos --patch "{\"data\":{\"apiAddress\": \"$ApiAddress\"}}"
    ```

1. `CSI (Container Storage Interface)`

CSI allows you to set StorageOS features (`storageos.com/*` labels) in
the StorageClass, but not PVCs. If you need to set labels in PVCs (but not
StorageClasses) or your environment does not support CSI, you may install
StorageOS without CSI:

```bash
# Set cluster.join to hostnames or ip addresses of at least one node
helm install . --name my-release --set cluster.join=node01,node02,node03 --set csi.enable=true
```
